(my page numbers might be different because I used an online textbook)

1. 1. For the selection sort (pp 477-480) select a sentence or short passage that best captures the way the
selection sort works. Briefly explain why you chose this passage.

I picked the passage: "For a card player, this process is analogous to looking at an entire hand of cards 
and ordering it by selecting cards one at a time in their proper order." (Page 543). I liked the reference
of playing cards as it is something I am very familiar. Similar to this, the selection sort algorithm
iteratively chooses the lowest or largest member from the unsorted portion of the array and sets it in 
the proper location.

2. 2. For the bubble sort (pp 481-482) select a sentence or short passage that best captures the way the
bubble sort works. Briefly explain why you chose this passage.

I picked the passage: "The bubble sort compares adjacent items and exchanges them if they are out of order." 
(Page 547). I like the passage because it briefly and eloquently summarizes the exact process that the 
bubble sort has. It tells us how the sort works and then what happens once elements are sorted, so it is a
good one-liner.

3. In no more than two sentences, detail the greatest difference between selection sort and the bubble sort.

Selection sort repeatedly finds the min/max element and puts it in the correct spot, while bubble sort compares
elements side-by-side and swaps if they are out of order, "bubbling" the largest to the end of the array.

4. For the merge sort (pp 485-491) select a sentence or short passage that best captures the way the merge
sort works. Briefly explain why you chose this passage.

I like the passage: "Mergesort is a recursive sorting algorithm that divides the array into halves, sorts each half,
and then merges the sorted halves into one sorted array." (Page 551). I chose this passage because it is an easy 
description of the key steps in the merge sort algorithm, highlighting its recursive nature and how the sorted halves 
are merged back together to create a fully sorted array.

5. For the quicksort (pp 491-503) select a sentence or short passage that best captures the way the
quicksort works. Briefly explain why you chose this passage.

I picked: ""The partition induces relationships among the array items that are the ingredients of a recursive solution. 
Arranging the array items around the pivot p generates two smaller sorting problems—sort the left section of the array (S1),
and sort the right section of the array (S2). The relationships between the pivot and the array items imply that once you 
solve the left and right sorting problems, you will have solved the original sorting problem." (Page 558). I chose this 
because it describes the core concept of quicksort, which is partitioning the array based on the pivot element. It emphasizes
how the partitioning step creates two smaller subproblems that need to be solved recursively.

6. In your own words, explain in some detail how the quicksort works.

Quicksort uses divide-and-conquer. It takes the remaining elements into two subarrays, one with elements smaller than the 
pivot and the other with elements more than/equal to the pivot. It has to choose a pivot element from the array. Each 
subarray goes through recursively until the entire array is sorted. Here are the steps:
    1. Choose pivot element from array.
    2. Rearranging elements so elements smaller than pivot are before it, and elements greater after it.
    3. Recursively apply steps 1 and 2 to subarrays created from partitioning.
    4. Repeat above steps until subarrays contain only one element or are empty.
    5. Combine the sorted subarrays to obtain the fully sorted array.

7. In no more than two sentences, detail the greatest difference between merge sort and quicksort.

Merge sort splits the array into small subarrays and merges them together sorted. Quicksort partitions the array based off the
pivot element, recursively sorting the subarrays.